---
layout: default
---
##Finding a suitable internal control
Another aspect of the project was to find an internal control, which fluoresced at a different wavelength than the Spinach-DFHBI complex. The aptamers from the article by Paige et al, 2011 were recreated, the fluorophores were synthesized and the complexes were tested at the fluorometer, Fluoro-Max-3. As seen in figure XX, the fluorescence enhancement was virtually non-existing for most of the aptamer-fluorophore complexes, except for the 17-3 & DMHBI complex, which showed an increase in fluorescence when compared to DMHBI. The fluorescence enhancement wasn’t as high as needed, therefore when the Mango aptamer and fluorophore TOF-3 were discovered by Dolgosheina et. al. in August 2014 to be fluorescent at a different wavelength than Spinach-DFHBI, it was synthesized as fast as possible.From the article, we will expect the Mango-TOF3-complex to have a fluorescence enhancement much greater than the 17-3 complex, which will make this aptamer-complex more suitable for an internal control compared with the previously known aptamer-complexes.  (Graph of aptamers' efficiency)###OrthogonalityThe internal control and the Spinach constructs need to be orthogonal in two ways. The emission wavelengths must be different from one another, and the RNA aptamers should not be capable of binding each others fluorophores. Therefore, experiments were conducted to test if the Spinach aptamer can bind the Mango fluorophore or if the Mango aptamer can bind the DFHBI. If they don’t bind to the fluorophore of each other, the fluorescence signal will be specific and that will make Mango suitable for being the internal control in the sensor system.  