---
layout: default
---

## In vivo experiments

Making BL21 DE3 electrocompetentThe electrocompetent DH5α cells, do not have T7 polymerase in them, so it was needed to make the BL21 DE3 strain electrocompetent. 1 l LB media, 250 ml 10 % glycerol and 50 microcentrifuge tubes where autoclaved for 30 minutes at 121 °C with 22psi. The BL21DE3 where grown overnight in 1l LB media with" " 〖"50 μg μl" 〗^"-1"  kanamycin at 37 ˚C. The media was then centrifuged at 4000 rpm at 4 °C for 30 minutes. The supernatant was removed and the pellet was resuspended in 100 ml 10 % glycerol. This was then centrifuged one more time at 4000 rpm at 4 °C for 30 minutes, then it was washed. The washing was done by removing the supernatant, adding 100 ml 10 % glycerol and then centrifuged once more at 4000 rpm at 4 °C for 30 minutes. The supernatant was removed and the pellet was resuspended in 50  ml 10 % glycerol, aliquoted to the microcentrifuge tubes, frozen on dry ice before immediately put in – 80 °C freezer.  All samples and equipment used were kept on ice or in the cold room. LB media 10 g tryptone, 10 g sodium chloride and 5 g yeast extract was mixed, dissolve in 1 l Milli-Q water and then sterilized by autoclaving in 30 minutes at 121 °C. Kept at room temperature to check for contamination. LB solid medium10 g tryptone, 10 g sodium chloride, 5 g yeast extract and 15 g agar was mixed, dissolve in 1 l Milli-Q water and then sterilized by autoclaving in 30 minutes at 121 °C. The media was then cooled to 65°C and " " 〖"50 μg μl" 〗^"-1"   kanamycin was added. It was then poured into 5-cm petri dishes. Expression of Spinach RNAThe Spinach plasmids were cleaved with XhoI to make sure transcription was terminated at the right place. This was done because the T7-terminator does not work as well in vitro as in vivo.15 µl nuclease free water, 2 µl 10 X FastDigest® buffer, 2 µl DNA and 1 µl FastDigest® XhoI, where mixed and incubated 20 minutes at 37 °C. Afterwards the enzyme was deactivated by elevating the temperature to 80 °C for 5 minutes. 4 µl 10 X Transcription buffer, 4 µl DTT, 2 µl NT mix and 4 µl T7 polymerase was added to the digestion mix. The transcription mix was incubated for 14 hours in 37 °C. It was then run on a 10 % polyacrylamide gel, at 600 volts, 40 volt/cm, 40 watts for 1.45 hours. Under UV-light the band with the RNA was cut and extracted from the gel into 600 µl of RNase free water by electro elution in MIDI GeBaFlex-tubes. 60 µl of sodium acetate was added, and the solution was split into two microcentrifuge tubes, where 1155 µl of ethanol 96 % was added (temperature - 20°C). The samples were put on dry ice for 15 minutes, and subsequently centrifuged in the cold room for 30 minutes at 17 000 g. The supernatant was then removed and 200 µl of 70 % ethanol (temperature - 20°C) was added. The samples were centrifuged as before and almost all of the supernatant was removed. It was allowed to dry and then resuspended in RNase-free water. Concentration was measured on a NanodropTM 1000 with the RNase free water as a blank.Plasmid amplification50 µl of electrocompetent DH5α cells were transformed with 4 µl of plasmid in 0.2 cm electroporation cuvettes. The cuvettes were placed on ice before use. The mix of cells and plasmid were pulsed at 2.5 kV on the Biorad Genepulser with settings set to 0.2 cm cuvettes. Immediately after pulsing 1 ml LB media was added, and the resuspended cells were incubated for 1 h (1.5 h if it was a ligated plasmid) at 37 °C with 225 rpm shaking. The cells were then plated on LB plates with" " 〖"50 μg μl" 〗^"-1"  kanamycin. The plasmid was then extracted by doing a maxiprep using the NucleoBond® PC500 kit from Macherey-Nagel according to manufactures instruction. The plasmids were sent to sequencing for confirmation at GATC-biotech. For quick screening before sending the plasmid to sequencing, a plasmid profile was done by running the plasmid on a 1% agarouse gel, 11 volt/cm. Some lanes had the plasmid cleaved by XhoI and/or BglII.   LigationTo create the pET28c-positive plasmid (the spinach gene inside the pET28c vector) PCR assembled Spinach DNA and the pET28c-SAM were both cleaved with BglII and XhoI (FastDigest® Thermo Scientific) using the manufactors instructions, incubation of 40 minutes in 37 °C. They were then run on a 1% agarous gel at 11 V/cm, which was stained with SybrSafe. SybrSafe was chosen as a stain because of the easy visualization under UV-light, but it is not needed. Under UV-light the band with the DNA was cut and the DNA extracted by using the “Freeze 'N Squeeze” kit from Quatum Prep.  The vector DNA and insert (assembly DNA) was then ligated using T4 DNA ligase from Thermo scientific (EL0016) according to manufactures instructions with freshly made 10X DNA ligase buffer. The only change from the protocol was incubation at 22°C, which was not done in ten minutes but for an hour. 5 µl from the ligation mix was then dialyzed using Millipore® MF-Millipore™ DNA Filter Paper for a half hour. This step was needed to insure that the salt concentration was low enough for usage in the Biorad Gene-pulser. The plasmid was then ready for transformation. M9 5x salt solution96.5 g Na2HPO4 · H20, 15 g "K" "H" _"2"  "P" "O" _"4" , 2.5 "NaCl"  and 5 g "N" "H" _"4"  "Cl"  was mixed and dissolve in a final volume of 1 l Milli-Q water. It was then autoclaved for 30 min, 22psi, 121 °C. M9 medium200 ml 5x M9 salt solution, 2 ml 1 M "MgS" "O" _"4" , 100 µl 1 M "CaC" "l" _"2"  was mixed, with the pH adjusted to 6.0 and the final volume adjusted to 1 l with Milli-Q water. In one of the mediums "2 mg m" "l" ^"-1" glucose was added, in another medium "2 mg m" "l" ^"-1" glucose and "2 mg m" "l" ^"-1" methionine was added. The final medium was sterilized by vacuum filtration through a 0.22-µm-pore filter. Microscope imaging of fluorescent cellsTo express the Spinach-RNA BL21 DE3 E.coli cells where transformed with the plasmid, as previously described. After the cells were plated and incubated at 37°C overnight, a sample from a colony for the positive control, negative control and Spinach SAM aptamer were incubated with 1 ml M9 media for 26 h. The need for such an extensive time is because of the lack of nutrient in M9 media. Four hours before measurement the samples were induced with 1 mM IPTG. An hour before measurement a 19 µl aliquot was taken and 1 µl 4 mM of DFHBI stock was added, so the final concentration of DFHBI was 200 µM. 20 minutes before measurement the aliquotes were put on a microscope slide with a cover slip on top and sealed with nail polish to prevent evaporation. The fluorescence was detected with a confocal microscope LSM 700 (Zeiss) with excitation at 488 nm 10 mW. The images were then analysed using Image J software, where the mean fluorescent intensities per cell were calculated. Student’s t-testA Student’s t-test was performed to test significance between the different samples. For all tests two tails were chosen along with double sample with different variance, since this best fitted the data. 