---
layout: default
---
## Project idea

When deciding the topic of our project, it was important for the team to use cutting edge research that could be applied in a new way. When we heard about the optical RNA aptamer called Spinach and the many useful applications of it and other aptamers, we almost instantly decided that we wanted to be a part of the fast evolving field of aptamer biology. An aptamer is an oligonucleic acid or a peptide molecule that bind to a target with affinities and specificities that rival those of antibodies. Optical aptamers are capable of inducing fluorescence upon binding to their target molecule. An example of this is the RNA aptamer called Spinach, which fluoresce at a wavelength of 495 nm upon binding to 3,5-difluoro-4-hydroxybenzylidene imidazolinone. The part of the Spinach aptamer research that appealed the most to us was combining the Spinach aptamer with another aptamer to make a biosensor.

Our concentration dependent biosensor system is based on the aptamer system that Paige et. al. described in 2012 [YY]. The main issue with this otherwise innovative sensor (See [The original construct](theoriginalconstruct.html) ), is that it is only capable of detecting whether or not the target molecule is present in a reasonable amount - and not the concentration of it. Therefore our ultimate goal was to improve this sensor by making it concentration dependent. We wanted to do this by making RNA sensors with different affinities for the same target molecule, which can be combined to improve the dynamic range of the sensor. We also wanted to improve the accuracy of the signal *in vivo* by combining the sensor with an internal control; an orthogonal optical aptamer, which would fluoresce independently of the target molecule concentration. The orthogonal aptamer will ensure a baseline with which to compare the fluorescent signal from the sensor.
