---
layout: default
---

##The final construct

The final goal of our project was to combine two or more aptamer sensors, thereby broadening the dynamic range of the original sensor and adding an internal control. 

The constructs named T1 and T2 (See [Concentration dependence](concdependence.html)) show promise for broadening the dynamic range, which will be discussed under [Finding the K~d~ values](kddata.html). Therefore these two were selected to be combined in the final construct, named Salad. The big problem with using fluorescent biosensors, is that they are expressed inside the cells, and cell expression can vary. This will make the data uncertain, so that having less fluorescence in a cell might not be an indication for the concentration of the target, but rather the cells expression of the constructs. The composition of the two aptamers into the same construct ensures that the expression level of both aptamers are the same. Furthermore an internal control have been added to the Salad-construct. This control is the Mango aptamer, which is a high affinity RNA aptamer that binds to thiazole orange derivatives. The fluorescence of Mango does not depend on the concentration of the target, and it can therefore serve as a baseline to normalize the fluorescence by. Inside the cells, cellular RNases are a problem since they can degrade Salad. A tRNA scaffold therefore surrounds the total construct. This protects it by hijacking the host cells cell machinery, since it is disguised as natural RNA. The RNA is still functional inside the cell and accumulate stably inside them as well. [Ved vi at den gør det?]
With this construct, it is possible to measure concentration of a target inside the cells via the T1 and T2 sensors with a broadened dynamic range. This data is made reliable by of the internal control. And the construct itself is protected by a tRNA-scaffold which will make them functional inside the cells. The Salad construct could therefore be a very useful concentration-measuring construct, when the concentration of small molecules in vivo is needed. 