---
layout: default
---

##The original construct

One of the many qualities of aptamers is that they selectively binds to almost any desired target. When an aptamer binds a molecule, it can induce structural changes of the molecule which can lead to fluorescence that is only apparent when the aptamer binds the fluorophore - this is called an optical aptamer, and is for obvious reasons perfect for a sensor. An example of this is the RNA aptamer called Spinach (discovered by Paige, et. al. in 2011, enhanced by Strack, et. al. in 2013), which fluoresces only when bound to DFHBI. It has an fluorescent enhancement that rivals that of green fluorescent protein and almost no photobleaching. Knowing the great possibilities of binding different targets with RNA aptamers, the next step is combining Spinach with detecting aptamers, thereby creating an RNA-based non-photobleaching sensor. 
Though most sensors based on aptamers currently only detect a few model molecules like S-adenosyl methionine (SAM), adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and Thrombin, they are possible to modify to target almost any desired metabolite, molecule, organism etc. This introduces the possibility of measuring targets that have been difficult to measure so far.

Paige et. al. found in 2012 that combining the Spinach aptamer with a SAM detecting aptamer as seen in figure XX, made detection of SAM by fluorescence experiments possible. They even showed that the system still worked when using a different target detecting aptamer, showing the great flexibility of the system.

[theoriginalconstruct1.png]

The detection aptamer is attached to Spinach through a linker region, which will be able to fold correctly and allow fluorescence only if the specific target is present. When the target is not present, the detection aptamer, and thereby the linker region, is unstable, and the system will not fluoresce significantly. There will always be some fluorescence from spontaneous interactions between the fluorophore and optical aptamer but this is negligible. When the detection aptamer binds its target and folds correctly, the linker region stabilizes the structure of the optical aptamer, Spinach, enabling the binding with DFHBI and the fluorescence. The linker region thus acts as a bridge between the optical aptamer and the detection aptamer and therefore does not interact directly with either of the molecules (fluorophore or target).

There are a few problems with this otherwise innovative and versatile sensor. One is that it is only capable of detecting whether or not the target is available - but not the concentration of it. Therefore, part of this project will focus on attempting to make the sensor concentration dependent by making point mutations in the construct. Another point of focus in the project is the expression of this sensor *in vivo*, and how the fluorescence may depend as much upon the transcriptional level of RNA as on the concentration of SAM. A fluorescent aptamer will been sought after, which will aid with a baseline fluorescence with which to compare the fluorescence of the sensor. It will be incorporated in the RNA construct to assure that the transcriptional level of the aptamers are the same. 
